Introducing Config as Code for Runbooks (#1162)
OctopusDeploy/blog: blog/2024-10/introducing-config-as-code-runbooks/index.md

---
title: Introducing Config as Code for Runbooks
description: Config as Code for Runbooks is now available, complementing our existing support for version-controlled deployment processes.
author: harriet.alexander@octopus.com
visibility: private
published: 2024-10-23-1400
metaImage: img-configascode-runbooks-2024.png
bannerImage: img-configascode-runbooks-2024.png
bannerImageAlt: Person sitting on over-sixed books with an open laptop on their lap.
isFeatured: false
tags: 
  - Product
  - Configuration as Code
  - Runbooks
---

> We're excited to announce that Configuration as Code for Runbooks has started rolling out to our Cloud customers. It will be available for our self-hosted customers in the 2024.4 release. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We're excited to announce that Configuration as Code for Runbooks has started rolling out to our Cloud customers. It will be available for our self-hosted customers in the 2024.4 release later this year.
```

- With your Runbooks in Git, it’s easy to run an old version by running the runbook at a commit or tag. If you make a mistake and need to roll back, you have a full history of all changes and can roll back to any point in time.

## Snapshots changing to branches

Without Config as Code for Runbooks, when running a runbook, you can only pick from 2 different versions: the published snapshot or the latest draft.

When running the published snapshot, we run a version of the runbook that was snapshot sometime in the past and marked as the published version.

When running the latest draft, we create a new snapshot of the latest process and variables at the time of running, every time you run.

This lets you make and test changes to your runbooks without impacting day-to-day operations.

With Config as Code for Runbooks, you can make and test changes to a runbook on a branch without impacting the rest of the team, so there's no need for published and draft versions.

After your changes have been tested and reviewed, simply merge them into your default branch to make them available for the rest of the team.

> You can also run an old version of a runbook from a commit or tag at any time - there's no need to go searching through old snapshots to try and find one that works.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can also run an old version of a runbook from a commit or tag at any time - there's no need to go searching through old snapshots trying to find one that works.
```

- On top of existing Octopus permissions and audit logs, you can review all changes through pull requests and have a full history of all changes made to your runbooks. 
- With your runbooks in Git, it’s easy to run an old version by running the runbook at a commit or tag. If you make a mistake and need to roll back, you have a full history of all changes and can roll back to any point in time.

## Snapshots changing to branches

Without Config as Code for Runbooks, when running a runbook, you pick from 2 different versions: the published snapshot or the latest draft.

When running the published snapshot, we run a version of the runbook that was snapshotted sometime in the past and marked as the published version. When running the latest draft, we create a new snapshot of the latest process and variables at the time of running, every time you run. This lets you make and test changes to your runbooks without impacting day-to-day operations.

With Config as Code for Runbooks, you can make and test changes to a runbook on a branch without impacting the rest of the team, so there's no need for published and draft versions.

> 

Author: ![Create a new branch for your Runbook straight from Octopus](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/14c7e25c-4bfa-40bf-90d7-984c7bac9c3a)

After your changes have been tested and reviewed, simply merge them into your default branch to make them available for the rest of the team.

> 

Author: ![Merge your change using the create PR function](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/f2a00015-fb7c-45f1-9424-68233741cf56)
